4.2. Consent Write (Capture, Modification, Revocation)
This API endpoint should be used for consent capture, modification, or revocation. In the request payload, 
the integrating applications have to ensure that it sends the status against each purpose.
On success, a message may be shown to the end user which should explain the time required for the bank 
to consider any consent revocation.
Consent captured/modified/revoked against an NTB (using ntbId) will remain confined to the touchpoint. 
If two channels/touchpoints register consent(s) against the same NTB ID, the consent(s) will still be 
treated separate while enquiring.
 
SBI Confidential 10 of 19
4.2.1. API Details
HTTP Method POST
Content Type application/json
API Request Payload {
 "touchPointId": "value",
 "purposeSetId": "value",
 "dpData": 
 {
 "dpCIF": "value",
 "ntbId": "value",
 "dpMobile": "value",
 "dpEmail": "value",
 "dpDOB": "value",
 "dpIPAddress": "value",
 "locale": "value",
 "timestamp": "value"
 },
 "consents": 
 [
 {
 "purposeCode": "value",
 "purposeVersion": value,
 "consented": value,
 "consentedProducts": ["value", "value", …],
 "notConsentedProducts": ["value", "value", …]
 },
 {
 <NEXT CONSENT>
 },
 …
 ]
}
API Response Payload { 
 …
 …
 "body": 
 {
 "dpCIF": "value",
 "ntbId": "value",
 "consentId": "value"
 },
 …
 …
}
Error Payload Please refer the standard responses above.
 
SBI Confidential 11 of 19
4.2.2. API Inputs
Field Description Mandatory Type
Length / Range / 
Format / Enum
touchPointId
The Id/Code provided by CCMS 
team during application 
integration onboarding.
Yes string 1-10
purposeSetId
The purpose set Id/Code used by 
the touchpoint/channel to fetch 
purposes from CCMS and display 
to data principal/end user.
Yes string 1-100
dpData
Data of data principal/end user to 
uniquely identify the DP and store 
metadata for audit trail.
Yes Object JSON
consents
Action taken by DP/end user 
against the requested consents 
along with purpose information 
which was displayed to DP/end 
user.
Yes Object[] JSON
Individual parameter inside ‘dpData’ and ‘consents’ fields above
dpCIF field must be present for all ETB journeys, or wherever available. 
For ‘NTB’ cases, ntbId is mandatory. ntbId should be generated by the source application and preferably 
the same which the source application uses to uniquely identify its users.
dpCIF and ntbId are mutually exclusive fields.
dpMobile, dpEmail, and dpDOB fields should be included whenever available for the NTB cases.
Field Description Mandatory Type 
Length / Range / 
Format / Enum
dpCIF For bank’s customers, CIF 
must be sent. Conditional string 13-17
ntbId
ID generated by Data 
Fiduciary to identify the 
consent when CIF is not 
available.
Conditional string 1-255
dpMobile
Mobile number of data 
principal. Valid characterset 
for dpMobile is +(only at 
No string 10-17
 
SBI Confidential 12 of 19
beginning,optional) and 0-9 
numbers.
dpEmail Email address of data 
principal. No string 5-255
dpDOB Date of birth of the data 
principal.
No string YYYY-MM-DD
dpIPAddress IP address of the data 
principal’s device. Yes string 7-45
locale
The language preference 
selected by data principal 
while submitting consent. The 
language preference selected 
by data principal while 
submitting consent. Values 
will be from Language Master 
provided.
Yes string 3
timestamp
The timestamp at which the 
consent was submitted by 
data principal.
Yes string
YYYY-MMDDTHH:MM:SSZ
purposeCode
The code/Id of purpose 
received from CCMS when 
purposes/consents of user 
were fetched. 
Yes string 1-100
purposeVersion
The version number of the 
purpose as received from 
CCMS when 
purposes/consents of user 
were fetched.
Yes int 1-99999
consented
This field determines the 
status of consent against a 
purpose.
Yes boolean true, false
consentedProducts
If bank products were 
presented to data principal 
for individual product level 
consent capture, the code of 
the bank products as received 
from CCMS should be sent.
Conditional string[]
Individual string 
element length: 
1-100
 
SBI Confidential 13 of 19
notConsentedProducts
If bank products were 
presented to data principal 
for individual product level 
consent capture, the code of 
the bank products should be 
sent which were not selected 
by the data principal.
Conditional string[]
Individual string 
element length: 
1-100
4.2.3. API Outputs
In the body of the response below parameters shall be provided.
Field Description Mandatory
in Output Type
Length / 
Range / 
Format / Enum
dpCIF CIF field as advised in request payload. Conditional string 13-17
ntbId ntbId field as advised in request payload. Conditional string 1-255
consentId A reference ID generated by CCMS. Yes string
36 
RFC 4122 
compliant 
UUID 
(mandatory
v7)
4.3. Consent Read with Purpose Metadata
The API endpoint provides the latest consent status against the identifier of the data principal – CIF or 
NTB ID. The API provides the respective purpose information along with present consent status of the 
enquired data principal. This API may be used by the touchpoints which need to present the consent 
status to data principals or validate consent for a single data principle through API.
When enquired by -
• dpCIF: API response will provide present consent status regardless the source channel which had 
captured/modified/revoked the consent(s). Consent shared across touchpoints/channels.
• ntbId: API response will provide present consent status of the ntbId as provided by the 
touchPointId. The consent status of the NTB will not be shared across touchpoints/channels.
dpCIF and ntbId are conditionally optional fields.
4.3.1. API Details
HTTP Method POST
Content Type application/json
API Request Payload {
 
SBI Confidential 14 of 19
 "touchPointId": "value",
 "purposeSetId": "value",
 "dpCIF": "value",
 "ntbId": "value"
}
API Response Payload { 
 …
 …
 "body": 
 {
 "dpCIF": "value",
 "ntbId": "value",
 "dpConsent": 
 [
 {
 "isContainer": value,
 "containerTitle": "value",
 "containerDescription": "value",
 "purposes":
 [
 {
 "code": "value",
 "version": value,
 "title": "value",
 "description": "value",
 "isEssential": value,
 "isProductSpecific": value,
 "isNTB": value,
 "isETB": value,
 "hasValidity": value,
 "validityDays": value,
 "dataPoints": [
 "value",
 "value",
 …
 ],
 "bankProducts":
 [
 {"code": "value", "label": "value"}, 
 {"code": "value", "label": "value"}, 
 …
 ],
 "consentInfo":
 {
 "status": "value",
 "consentId": "value",
 "dpIPAddress": "value",
 
SBI Confidential 15 of 19
 "locale": "value",
 "timestamp": "value",
 "validTill": "value",
 "touchpointInfo":
 {
 "orgName": "value",
 "appName": "value",
 "deptName": "value"
 },
 "consentedProducts": ["value", "value", …]
 }
 },
 …
 ]
 },
 {
 <NEXT PURPOSE CONTAINER>
 },
 …
 ]
 },
 …
 …
}
Error Payload Please refer the standard responses above.
4.3.2. API Inputs
Field Description Mandatory Type
Length / Range / 
Format / Enum
touchPointId
The Id/Code provided by CCMS 
team during application 
integration onboarding.
Yes string 1-10
purposeSetId
The purpose set Id/Code under 
which the desired set of purposes 
configured.
Yes string 1-100
dpCIF
For bank’s customers, CIF must 
be sent to CCMS for enquiring the 
present consent status.
Conditional string 13-17
ntbId
ID of NTB generated by Data 
Fiduciary while consent capture / 
modification / revocation.
Conditional string 1-255
4.3.3. API Outputs
 
SBI Confidential 16 of 19
Please refer the ‘Purposes’ API for the common fields inside ‘dpConsent’ field. Along with each 
‘purpose’ array element in dpConsent, respective consent status, if available, is provided in 
‘consentInfo’ field.
Field Description Mandatory
in Output Type
Length / 
Range / 
Format / Enum
consentInfo Object representing the consent status of 
the enquired data principal ID in request. No Object JSON
status Consent status. No string
Active, 
Inactive, 
Expired
consentId A reference ID generated by CCMS while 
capturing/modifying/revoking consent.
No string
36 
RFC 4122 
compliant 
UUID 
(mandatory
v7)
dpIP IP address of the data principal’s device
from which consent was updated.
No string 7-45
locale
The language preference selected by data 
principal while submitting consent.
Values will be from Language Master 
provided.
No string 3
timestamp
The timestamp at which the consent was 
submitted by data principal. No string
YYYY-MMDDTHH:MM:SS
Z
validTill
Validity of the consent / consent expiry 
time. If consent is perpetual 
(hasValidity=false for respective 
purpose), validTill would be null.
No string
null /
YYYY-MMDDTHH:MM:SS
Z
touchpointInfo
The source/data fiduciary application 
through which consent was 
captured/modified/revoked. 
No Object JSON
orgName
Organization name of the 
touchpoint/channel. No string 0-100
appName
Application name of the 
touchpoint/channel. No string 0-100
 
SBI Confidential 17 of 19
deptName Department name of the 
touchpoint/channel. No string 0-100
5. API Response Codes
HTTP Status Code Response
200
Success
Successful response as per the API details of the 
respective API
200
Response payload statusCode 400
Input errors
{
success: false,
statusCode: 400,
messages: string[],
locale: string,
errors: null,
body: null,
timestamp: string, 
correlationId: string
}
200
Response payload statusCode 422
Unprocessable entity
{
success: false,
statusCode: 422,
messages: string[],
locale: string,
errors: null,
body: null,
timestamp: string, 
correlationId: string
}
500
Internal server error
{
success: false,
statusCode: 500,
messages: string[],
locale: string,
errors: null,
body: null,
timestamp: string, 
correlationId: string
}
6. Appendix
Label Description
Data Principal An individual to whom the personal data relates. They have the right to give, manage 
and withdraw consent for data processing.
 
SBI Confidential 18 of 19
Data Fiduciary Any person or entity that determines the purpose and means of processing personal 
data and is responsible for obtaining and managing consent in compliance with the 
DPDP Act.
Data Processor A person or entity that processes personal data on behalf of a Data Fiduciary, 
following their instructions.
Channel An application/interface through which data principal manages consents. Channel 
and touchpoint words are used interchangeably. 
Touchpoint An application/interface through which data principal manages consents. Channel 
and touchpoint words are used interchangeably.
X-Correlation-Id X-Correlation-Id is used for uniquely identifying each request for
tracking/debugging. Although, it is not forced to be unique and not necessarily to be 
as per the specified compliance, it is the responsibility of the source party to 
generate it as suggested.
The validation check will ensure a string of 36 characters total (8-4-4-4-12 groups).
Language 
Master
Code Language Name
asm Assamese
ben Bengali
brx Bodo
dgo Dogri
eng English
guj Gujarati
hin Hindi
kan Kannada
kas Kashmiri
kok Konkani
mai Maithili
mal Malayalam
mni Manipuri
mar Marathi
nep Nepali
ory Odia
pan Punjabi
san Sanskrit
sat Santali
snd Sindhi
tam Tamil
tel Telugu
urd Urdu
Purpose Description of use of data obtained from a person. Purpose verbiage against which 
a consent is requested to the user, e.g., Email Marketing.
Consent Data principal’s concurrence to process/use the personal data as mentioned in
purpose statement.
Purpose 
Container
A purpose container groups similar kind of purposes. 
Example: Purpose Container: Marketing, Member Purpose 1: Email Marketing, 
Member Purpose 2: SMS Marketing.
 
SBI Confidential 19 of 19
Illustration of Mix of Granular Purposes (1,2,5) and Grouped Purposes (3,4)
| Purpose 1
| Purpose 2
| Purpose Container 1
 | Purpose 3
 | Purpose 4
| Purpose 5
Container Nesting Level: 0, i.e. there won’t be any containers inside a container.
Purpose Set A virtual categorization of purposes and purpose containers. A purpose set will 
enable the API consumers to fetch a specific set of purposes as per the context in 
their user journey.
Purpose sets will be maintained by the CCMS admin team, and they will provide a 
purpose set ID after mapping the required purposes and purpose containers to the 
purpose set.
ETB Existing to Bank
NTB New to Bank
-- 
