4.2. Consent Write (Capture, Modification, Revocation) 
This API endpoint should be used for consent capture, modification, or revocation.  In the request payload, 
the integrating applications have to ensure that it sends the status against each purpose. 
On success, a message may be shown to the end user which should explain the time required for the bank 
to consider any consent revocation. 
 
                             
SBI Confidential  10 of 19 
4.2.1. API Details 
HTTP Method POST 
Content Type application/json 
API Request Payload  { 
    "touchPointId": "value", 
    "purposeSetId": "value", 
    "dpData":  
    { 
        "dpCIF": "value", 
        "ntbId": "value", 
        "dpMobile": "value", 
        "dpEmail": "value", 
        "dpDOB": "value", 
        "dpIPAddress": "value", 
        "locale": "value", 
        "timestamp": "value" 
    }, 
    "consents":  
     [ 
        { 
            "purposeCode": "value", 
            "purposeVersion": value, 
            "consented": value, 
            "consentedProducts": ["value", "value", …], 
            "notConsentedProducts": ["value", "value", …] 
        }, 
        { 
            <NEXT CONSENT> 
        }, 
        … 
    ] 
} 
API Response Payload  {  
    … 
    … 
    "body":  
    { 
        "dpCIF": "value", 
        "ntbId": "value", 
        "consentId": "value" 
    }, 
    … 
    … 
} 
Error Payload Please refer the standard responses above. 
 
                             
SBI Confidential  11 of 19 
4.2.2. API Inputs 
 
Field Description Mandatory Type Length / Range / 
Format / Enum 
touchPointId 
The Id/Code provided by CCMS 
team during application 
integration onboarding. 
Yes string 1-10 
purposeSetId 
The purpose set Id/Code used by 
the touchpoint/channel to fetch 
purposes from CCMS and display 
to data principal/end user. 
Yes string 1-100 
dpData 
Data of data principal/end user to 
uniquely identify the DP and store 
metadata for audit trail. 
Yes Object JSON 
consents 
Action taken by DP/end user 
against the requested consents 
along with purpose information 
which was displayed to DP/end 
user. 
Yes Object[] JSON 
 
Individual parameter inside ‘dpData’ and ‘consents’ fields above 
dpCIF field must be present for all ETB journeys, or wherever available.  
For ‘NTB’ cases, ntbId is mandatory. ntbId should be generated by the source application and preferably 
the same which the source application uses to uniquely identify its users. 
dpCIF and ntbId are mutually exclusive fields. 
dpMobile, dpEmail, and dpDOB fields should be sent whenever available for the NTB cases. 
Field Description Mandatory Type  Length / Range / 
Format / Enum 
dpCIF For bank’s customers, CIF 
must be sent. Conditional string 13-17 
ntbId 
ID generated by Data 
Fiduciary to identify the 
consent when CIF is not 
available. 
Conditional string 1-255 
dpMobile 
Mobile number of data 
principal. Valid characterset 
for dpMobile is +(only at 
No string 10-17 
                             
SBI Confidential  12 of 19 
beginning,optional) and 0-9 
numbers. 
dpEmail Email address of data 
principal. No string 5-255 
dpDOB Date of birth of the data 
principal. No string YYYY-MM-DD 
dpIPAddress IP address of the data 
principal’s device. Yes string 7-45 
locale 
The language preference 
selected by data principal 
while submitting consent. The 
language preference selected 
by data principal while 
submitting consent. Values 
will be from Language Master 
provided. 
Yes string 3 
timestamp 
The timestamp at which the 
consent was submitted by 
data principal. 
Yes string YYYY-MM
DDTHH:MM:SSZ 
purposeCode 
The code/Id of purpose 
received from CCMS when 
purposes/consents of user 
were fetched.  
Yes string 1-100 
purposeVersion 
The version number of the 
purpose as received from 
CCMS when 
purposes/consents of user 
were fetched. 
Yes int 1-99999 
consented 
This field determines the 
status of consent against a 
purpose. 
Yes boolean true, false 
consentedProducts 
Future scope. If bank 
products were presented to 
data principal for individual 
product level consent 
capture, the code of the bank 
products as received from 
CCMS should be sent. 
Conditional string[] 
Individual string 
element length: 
1-100 
                             
SBI Confidential  13 of 19 
notConsentedProducts 
Future scope. If bank 
products were presented to 
data principal for individual 
product level consent 
capture, the code of the bank 
products should be sent 
which were not selected by 
the data principal. 
Conditional string[] 
Individual string 
element length: 
1-100 
 
4.2.3. API Outputs 
In the body of the response below parameters shall be provided. 
Field Description Mandatory 
in Output Type 
Length / 
Range / 
Format / Enum 
dpCIF CIF field as advised in request payload. Conditional string 13-17 
ntbId ntbId field as advised in request payload. Conditional string 1-255 
consentId A reference ID generated by CCMS. Yes string 
36  
RFC 4122 
compliant 
UUID 
(mandatory 
v7)
